h1. mysql-backup

A command line tool that backups all MySQL database instances it can find a server.

h2. Installation

<pre>
<code>
  $ sudo gem install mysql_backup —source http://gemcutter.org
</code>
</pre>

You can also grab the source code and install with rake:
<pre>
<code>
  $ cd /usr/local/src
  $ git clone git://github.com/christianhellsten/mysql-backup.git
  $ cd mysql-backup
  $ sudo rake install_gem
</code>
</pre>

h2. Configuration

Configuration is easy, just run the built-in mysql_backup_install command:

<pre>
<code>
  $ sudo mysql_backup_install
</code>
</pre>

The installation script will ask you to enter all necessary information and then writes the configuration to /etc/mysql_backup.

h2. Usage

Taking a backup of all databases is also easy:

<pre>
<code>
  $ sudo mysql_backup
</code>
</pre>

This will backup all databases, except the ones defined in the configuration file using the *skip* parameter.

h2. Scheduled backups with cron

Open the cron configuration with the following command:

<pre>
<code>
$ sudo crontab -e
</code>
</pre>

Add the following:

<pre>
<code>
PATH=/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin
SHELL=/bin/bash

# m h  dom mon dow   command

# Backup all MySQL databases every night at 24:00

00 00 * * * mysql_backup
</code>
</pre>

h2. Sample configuration

<pre>
<code>
user: root
password: xxx
host: localhost
dir: /var/backup
format: %d-%m-%y
keep: 10

mysqldump:
  options: -Q -c -C --add-drop-table --add-locks --quick --lock-tables
  path:
skip: [mysql, test, information_schema]
</code>
</pre>

h2. TODO

* Refactor
* List dependencies
* Handle command line errors gracefully
* Nice

h2. Author

"Christian Hellsten":http://christianhellsten.com ("Aktagon Ltd.":http://aktagon.com)

